# AI

This file describes the AI class and the requirements necessary for it to work with MAIA.

## Basic Class Template

```python
class AI:
    def __init__(self):
        None
        
    def initData(self,team_name, sim_data, starting_region):
        self.team_name = team_name,
        self.sim_data = sim_data
        self.starting_region = starting_region


    # Implement AI in here.
    def runAI(self,data):
        return {}
```

The class name and the name and parameters of the three functions must not be changed.


## Empty constructor

```python
def __init__(self):
    None
```
You can add code to this if you wish, but you cannot add in parameters.

## initData method

```python
def initData(self,team_name, sim_data, starting_region):
    self.team_name = team_name,
    self.sim_data = sim_data
    self.starting_region = starting_region
```

This is just a convenience function to hand the AI object some default world, team and set data. While the function must exist with the same parameters, users are free to modify what it does. The data stored in the three members does not need to be sent back to MAIA. It is there so user AI can do some configuration based on initial conditions.

## runAI method

```python
# Implement AI in here.
def runAI(self,data):
    return {}
```
This empty function is the hook for user defined AI. The *data* parameter will contain all world views generated by the previous tick. The return of `runAI` should be a single dictionary containing the commands generated by the AI. If the AI does not wish to issue any commands it can send back either `None` or `{}` an empty dictionary.

## Implementing AI

The `runAI` method can call any other user created code. There is no need to keep execution with `runAI` or even the `AI` class. Feel free to import your own code, other libraries or anything. You could even import part of MAIA's code and run hypothetical scenarios. You're responsible for your hack.

